Port MASTG-TEST-0068 (iOS Certificate Pinning) to v2 (#3732)
OWASP/mastg: prerequisites/identify-first-party-domains.md

## Identifying First-Party Domains

> Several tests need to distinguish between first-party domains, which are under the developer's or organization's control, and third-party domains, which are operated by external providers (for example, analytics, advertising, or social SDKs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several network tests, such as those checking for certificate pinning, depend on knowing which remote endpoints are actually under the developer's control. Only these first-party domains should be evaluated against controls like pinning. Third-party domains outside the developer's control must not be reported as findings only because they appear in the app's traffic.
```

> First-party domains are the remote endpoints that support the app's core or security-sensitive functionality, such as authentication, account data, user content, or app-specific APIs. These are the domains for which controls like certificate pinning are typically expected, because the developer controls both the app and the server and can coordinate certificate or key rotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A domain or service is considered first-party when the developer (or their organization) owns or operates it and relies on it for the app's core or security-sensitive functionality. Common examples include:

- **Authentication and identity endpoints**, such as login, token issuance, or session management services.
- **Account and user-content APIs** that read or write the user's data.
- **App-specific backend APIs** that deliver the core functionality of the app.
```

> Third-party domains are outside the developer's control. Their certificates and keys are managed by the external provider, so applying controls such as pinning to them is often impractical and can break connectivity when the provider rotates certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By contrast, third-party domains are outside the developer's control. Their certificates and keys are managed by the external provider, so applying controls such as pinning to them is often impractical and can break connectivity when the provider rotates certificates.

The following are typically third-party and outside the scope of these controls: Analytics, crash-reporting, advertising, or social media SDKs endpoints.
```
